doc: ZBOSS trace UG (#6815)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_zigbee_configuring_zboss_traces.rst

.. _ug_zigbee_configuring_zboss_traces:

Configuring ZBOSS traces in |NCS|
#################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This ZBOSS stack comes in a set of precompiled libraries which can complicate the debugging process.
To help with that, the ZBOSS stack can be configured to print trace logs that allow you to trace the stack behavior.
This page describes how to enable and configure ZBOSS trace logs.

Trace logs are printed in binary form and require access to stack source files, which are to be decoded into log messages.
Enabling trace logs can help with the debugging process even if you cannot decode them (due to lack of access to stack source files) because of the information they can provide about the stack behavior whenever an issue is found or reproduced.

.. note::
     ZBOSS trace logs are meant to be used for debugging ZBOSS based applications.
     These libraries are not certified and should not be used for production firmware or end products.

Requirements
************

> 

Author: Do any hardware requirements need to be added here?
Or anything else?

Reviewer: Not really.
The only thing I can think of is additional USB cable if trace logs via USB are enabled.

To collect and view the log files, you will need software that can do the following:

* Allow for reading serial ports
  For example, if you are using Windows you can use PuTTY. (See :ref:`putty` for more information.)

* Find the correct COM port

>   One way do this is by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT="Zigbee sample"` to help identify the device in the system's :guilabel:`Device Manager`.

Author: Need to edit this.
To allow for linking to the correct Kconfig option, should be just `CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT`, then include an example where it is equal to "Zigbee sample".

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Switch to ZBOSS libraries with compiled-in trace logs
*****************************************************

Set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_ENABLE_TRACES` to switch to ZBOSS libraries with compiled-in trace logs.

The ZBOSS stack comes in a precompiled form and trace logs are not compiled-in by default.
An additional set of ZBOSS libraries are available in nrfxlib, which does have trace logs compiled-in.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Select which ZBOSS trace logs to print
**************************************

1. Select which subsystems to receive logs from by configuring the ZBOSS trace mask with Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_MASK`.
   Trace masks can be created by adding masks of subsystems to receive trace logs from.

>    For available subsystems, see :file:`zb_trace.h`. (NOTE: CHANGE THIS TO PATH TO FILE, instead of just file name!)

Author: Need to find this file

Reviewer: It's either `nrfxlib/zboss/production/include/zb_trace.h` or `nrfxlib/zboss/development/include/zb_trace.h`.
I think that we could stick with the `nrfxlib/zboss/production/include/zb_trace.h` but in both cases this is the exact same file.

#. Select the level of logs you want to receive. Configure ZBOSS trace level by selecting one of the following levels:

   * Trace logs turned off - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_OFF`
   * Error trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_ERR`
   * Warning trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_WRN`
   * Info trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_INF`
   * Debug trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_DBG`

See :ref:`zigbee_ug_logging_stack_logs` to read more infomration about trace logs.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Configure how to print ZBOSS trace logs
***************************************

The :ref:`zigbee_osif_zboss_osif_serial` offers a few backends to choose from for printing ZBOSS trace logs.
It is recommended to use the Zigbee serial logger, as it is the most efficient.
To enable it, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING`.

**Optional:** You can increase size of the ring buffer that temporarily stores the trace logs.
   * To do this, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_BUFFER_SIZE`.

>    * This can prevent losing some of the logs in demanding scenarios. --NOTE: LOOK INTO THIS - GIVE A SPECIFIC EXAMPLE?

Author: Is there something we can add to this @sebastiandraus? Like a quick example, or another phrasing just so it is clear to the reader what a demanding scenario might be.

.. _ug_zigbee_configuring_zboss_traces:

Configuring ZBOSS traces in |NCS|
#################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> This ZBOSS stack comes in a set of precompiled libraries which can complicate the debugging process.

Author: > 

The "cmes" after |NCS| is a typo?

This page describes how to enable and configure ZBOSS trace logs.

Trace logs are printed in binary form and require access to stack source files, which are to be decoded into log messages.
Enabling trace logs can help with the debugging process even if you cannot decode them (due to lack of access to stack source files) because of the information they can provide about the stack behavior whenever an issue is found or reproduced.

.. note::
     ZBOSS trace logs are meant to be used for debugging ZBOSS based applications.
     These libraries are not certified and should not be used for production firmware or end products.

Requirements
************

To collect and view the log files, you will need the following:

* Software that allow for reading serial ports
  For example, if you are using Windows you can use PuTTY. (See :ref:`putty` for more information.)

* To find the correct COM port
  One way do this is by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT` (for example, :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT="Zigbee sample"`)  to help identify the device in the system's :guilabel:`Device Manager`.

> * An additional USB cable if trace logs through USB are enabled.

Author: Added a link to the section below, regarding enabling logs via USB.

   Trace masks can be created by adding masks of subsystems to receive the trace logs from.
   For available subsystems, see :file:`nrfxlib/zboss/production/include/zb_trace.h`.

#. Select the level of logs you want to receive. Configure ZBOSS trace level by selecting one of the following levels:

   * Trace logs turned off - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_OFF`
   * Error trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_ERR`
   * Warning trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_WRN`
   * Info trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_INF`
   * Debug trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_DBG`

See :ref:`zigbee_ug_logging_stack_logs` to read more about trace logs.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Configure how to print ZBOSS trace logs
***************************************

The :ref:`zigbee_osif_zboss_osif_serial` offers a few backends to choose from for printing ZBOSS trace logs.
It is recommended to use the Zigbee serial logger, as it is the most efficient.

> To enable it, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING`.

Author: That is a good point. Do you have any input @sebastiandraus, or anyone else?

> To enable it, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING`.

Reviewer: I's also a bit of legacy coming from previous SDK

> To enable it, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING`.

Author: Thanks for the input @sebastiandraus! With that in mind, do you think  we should have a subsection for the ZB serial logger, or is that not necessary? My feeling is that it is not necessary, but of course I may be wrong. What do you think?

> **Optional:** You can increase size of the ring buffer that temporarily stores the trace logs.

Author: Okay, will do. 
There is another part where I did the later, and made an "Optional configuration" subhead, on line 117. Should this also be reformatted into a definition paragraph?

   * To do this, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_BUFFER_SIZE`.
   * This can prevent losing some of the logs in demanding scenarios such as high network traffic, multiple devices being configured or joined, and so on.

Trace logs using UART (default)
===============================

Trace logs using the UART are enabled by default.

> Below are more details on how to configure trace logs using the UART.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manually configure trace logs using the UART, complete the following steps:
```
You mean like "configure further" or "configure in case you disable it"?

Author: The latter, I believe

Reviewer 2: I think this suggestion was not implemented... The point here was that we avoid using "below" and prefer "following", and usually use the standardized phrase "complete the following steps" to introduce procedures...

1. Trace logs are enabled by default. However, it can be manually set with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_UART_LOGGING`.

> #. Configure which UART device you want to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
>    This is optional, as the default ``UART_1`` will be used if no other UART device is configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Optionally, configure which UART device you want to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
   The default ``UART_1`` will be used if no other UART device is configured.
```

> #. Configure ``UART_1`` to be connected to the onboard J-Link instead of ``UART_0``, by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Configure the UART device you want to use to be connected to the onboard J-Link instead of ``UART_0``, by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:
```

    .. code-block:: devicetree

      &uart1 {
         tx-pin = <6>;
         rx-pin = <8>;
         rts-pin = <5>;
         cts-pin = <7>;
      };

      &uart0 {
         rx-pin = <33>;
         tx-pin = <34>;
         /delete-property/ rts-pin;
         /delete-property/ cts-pin;
      };

   .. note::
      This will remove access to the application logs.

Optional configuration
-----------------------

You can also increase the UART throughput by changing the baudrate.
Some of the trace logs will be dropped if the throughput is too low.
By default, the UART baudrate is set to 115200.

> To increase the baudrate to ``1000000``, add the ``current-speed = <1000000>;`` property to the ``uart1`` node in the DTS overlay file.

Author: @sebastiandraus What do you think? If so, can you help with this?

> To increase the baudrate to ``1000000``, add the ``current-speed = <1000000>;`` property to the ``uart1`` node in the DTS overlay file.

Reviewer: Sure, `uart1` node will look something like this:
```
      &uart1 {
         current-speed = <1000000>;
         tx-pin = <6>;
         rx-pin = <8>;
         rts-pin = <5>;
         cts-pin = <7>;
      };
```

Trace logs using native USB
===========================

> Trace logs can also be configured using a native USB.

Reviewer 2: Is there a preferred use case for this variant, as opposed to the default one?

Author: @sebastiandraus, what do you think?

Reviewer: Yes, zephyr/console logs can still be read. When trace logs are printed via UART, console logs can't be simply read because UART used by them is not connected to Jlink
Also, if used would like to debug NCP application that uses UART via on-board Jlink, this is the only way to be able to read trace logs.

Reviewer: Speaking of NCP sample, we probably need to add some info about NCP sample for dongle as the configuration will be slightly different

Author: Okay, I will write something that includes this information and add it to this section.

Author: Discussed with @sebastiandraus, and decided that since a lot of this is described in the Zigbee NCP sample, we will refer users there along with a warning or note box asking them to be aware if they have any other USB devices configured onto COM ACMs. (Will add this).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure trace logs using native USB, complete the following steps:

```

1. Set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_USB_CDC_LOGGING`.
   This also enables the necessary USB Kconfig options.

> #. Configure which USB device to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
>    This is optional, as the default ``CDC_ACM_0`` will be used if no other USB device is configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Optionally, configure which USB device to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
   The default ``CDC_ACM_0`` will be used if no other USB device is configured.
```

Reviewer 2: Please double-check this line, as the preview looks like not updaed, and the line in the file is also not updated by the looks of it in GitHub...

.. _ug_zigbee_configuring_zboss_traces:

Configuring ZBOSS traces in |NCS|
#################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` (ZBOSS stack) comes included in the |NCS| in a set of precompiled libraries, which can complicate the debugging process.
To help with that, the ZBOSS stack can be configured to print trace logs that allow you to trace the stack behavior.
This page describes how to enable and configure ZBOSS trace logs.

> Trace logs are printed in binary form and require access to stack source files, which are to be decoded into log messages.

Author: Will change to your suggestion.

> Enabling trace logs can help with the debugging process even if you cannot decode them (due to lack of access to stack source files).''

Reviewer: Maybe we can change this to positive language and say that Nordic/Devzone Support team can decode them?

Author: That sounds like a good idea! I'm just curious what others think? (@greg-fer) and if there are other docs that have done this before? I can check in the meantime.

> This is because of the information they can provide about the stack behavior whenever an issue is found or reproduced.

Reviewer: We can just say that whenever end user finds any issue with ZBOSS stack, they can enable trace logs and collect them while reproducing issue. Then end user can provide log file to the Devzone team to help them with debugging process.

Author: I will look into this. Sounds like a good idea - just want to make sure it follows other NCS docs in terms of style and what is/is not allowed.

Author: I've seen other pages do this as well, so sounds like a good idea to me.

.. note::
     ZBOSS trace logs are meant to be used for debugging ZBOSS based applications.
     These libraries are not certified and should not be used for production firmware or end products.

Requirements
************

To collect and view the log files, you will need the following:

* Software that allows for reading serial ports.
  For example, if you are using Windows you can use :ref:`putty`.

* Correct COM port
  One way to find the correct COM port is by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT` (for example, :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT="Zigbee sample"`)  to help identify the device in the system's :guilabel:`Device Manager`.

* An additional USB cable if trace logs through USB are enabled (see :ref:`ug_zigbee_configuring_zboss_traces_using_usb`).

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Switch to ZBOSS libraries with compiled-in trace logs
*****************************************************

Set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_ENABLE_TRACES` to switch to ZBOSS libraries with compiled-in trace logs.

The ZBOSS stack comes in a precompiled form and trace logs are not compiled-in by default.

> An additional set of ZBOSS libraries are available in nrfxlib, which does have trace logs compiled-in.

Author: I believe "are" is the correct form, because it is describing the noun closest to it (set of **libraries**). I think this is correct, but I may be wrong...

> An additional set of ZBOSS libraries are available in nrfxlib, which does have trace logs compiled-in.

Reviewer: I trust with this one

.. _ug_zigbee_configuring_zboss_traces:

Configuring ZBOSS traces in |NCS|
#################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This ZBOSS stack comes in a form of precompiled libraries which can complicate the debugging process.
To help with that, the ZBOSS stack can be configured to print trace logs that allow you to trace the stack behavior.

Trace logs are printed in binary form and require access to stack source files, which are to be decoded into log messages.
Enabling trace logs can help with the debugging process even if you cannot decode them (due to lack of access to stack source files) because of the information they can provide about the stack behavior whenever an issue is found or reproduced.

.. note::
     ZBOSS trace logs are meant to be used for debugging ZBOSS based applications.
     These libraries are not certified and should not be used for production firmware or end products.

> Follow the steps below to enable ZBOSS trace logs.

Author: Need to reword or edit this.

And language throughout this doc.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Switch to ZBOSS libraries with compiled-in trace logs
*****************************************************

Set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_ENABLE_TRACES` to switch to ZBOSS libraries with compiled-in trace logs.

The ZBOSS stack comes in a precompiled form and trace logs are not compiled-in by default.
An additional set of ZBOSS libraries are available in nrfxlib and it also has trace logs compiled-in.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Select which ZBOSS trace logs to print
**************************************

> 1. Select subsystems to receive logs from - configure ZBOSS trace mask with :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_MASK`.

Author: Will edit this sentence.

Trace logs using native USB
===========================

Trace logs can also be configured using a native USB.

1. To configure, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_USB_CDC_LOGGING`.
   This also enables the necessary USB Kconfig options.

#. Configure which USB device to use with :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
   This is optional, as the default ``CDC_ACM_0`` will be used if no other USB device is configured.

#. Create a USB CDC ACM instance that will be used for printing ZBOSS trace logs by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:

   .. code-block:: devicetree

      &zephyr_udc0 {
         cdc_acm_uart0: cdc_acm_uart0 {
            compatible = "zephyr,cdc-acm-uart";
            label = "CDC_ACM_0";
         };
      };

   .. note::
      For the ZBOSS trace logs to be printed correctly through the USB, it is recommended to not use the USB autosuspend.

Collecting log files
********************

To collect and view the log files, you will need the correct software, and to be able to find the correct COM port.

> * Which software to use:

Author: Change this to "Requirements" subhead, and move it further up in the doc?
Also include a table of which DKs are required and compatible for the trace logs?

Any software that allows for reading serial ports.
For example, if you are using Windows you can use PuTTY. (See LINK about how to set up PuTTY here.LINK).

.. link: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_testing.html#putty

> * Finding correct COM port

Author: Add this (as suggested by @sebastiandraus)
"Setting CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT="Zigbee sample" - may help identifying the device in the system device manager"

#. Select the level of logs you want to receive.
   Configure ZBOSS trace level by selecting one of the following levels:

   * Error trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_ERR`
   * Warning trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_WRN`
   * Info trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_INF`
   * Debug trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_DBG`

If you do not want to receive trace logs, turn them off by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_OFF`.

Each of the following levels on the list also includes the previous one.
See :ref:`zigbee_ug_logging_stack_logs` to read more about trace logs.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Configure how to print ZBOSS trace logs
***************************************

The :ref:`zigbee_osif_zboss_osif_serial` offers a few backends to choose from for printing ZBOSS trace logs.
It is recommended to use the Zigbee serial logger, as it is the most efficient.
To enable it, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING`.

Optional
   You can increase size of the ring buffer that temporarily stores the trace logs.

>    To do this, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_BUFFER_SIZE`.

Reviewer: Not really `set`, more like assign value (size of the buffer). This ring buffer has size of 4096B by default.

Author: Okay I will make that change. Does B stand for bytes here? Or should it be "4096B" all together, as you have written?

Reviewer: Yes, `B` stands for bytes. I think that should be written separate: `4096 B`.

   This can prevent losing some of the logs in demanding scenarios such as high network traffic, multiple devices being configured or joined, and so on.

Trace logs using UART (default)
===============================

> Trace logs using the UART are enabled by default.

Reviewer: To be more specific:
When CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING is selected, trace logs are printed using UART by default.

Below are more details on how to configure trace logs using the UART.

> 1. Set with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_UART_LOGGING`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_UART_LOGGING` Kconfig option.
```

#. Optionally, configure which UART device you want to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
   The default ``UART_1`` will be used if no other UART device is configured.

#. Configure the UART device that you want to use to be connected to the onboard J-Link instead of ``UART_0``, by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:

    .. code-block:: devicetree

      &uart1 {
         tx-pin = <6>;
         rx-pin = <8>;
         rts-pin = <5>;
         cts-pin = <7>;
      };

      &uart0 {
         rx-pin = <33>;
         tx-pin = <34>;
         /delete-property/ rts-pin;
         /delete-property/ cts-pin;
      };

    .. note::

>       This will remove access to the application logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      By connecting the UART device to the on-board J-Link, trace logs can be read directly from the J-Link COM port. As the consequence, UART device used by the logger is disconnected and application logs can not be accessed from the J-Link COM port.
```

Author: I have added this.
Just want to confirm that I have understood correctly that ```trace logs``` are not the same thing as ```application logs```. Is that correct?

Reviewer: Yes, those two are separate logs.

Optional configuration
-----------------------

You can also increase the UART throughput by changing the baudrate.
Some of the trace logs will be dropped if the throughput is too low.
By default, the UART baudrate is set to 115200.
To increase the baudrate to ``1000000``, add the ``current-speed = <1000000>;`` property to the ``uart1`` node in the DTS overlay file.
This can be done like the following:

.. code-block:: devicetree

      &uart1 {
         current-speed = <1000000>;
         tx-pin = <6>;
         rx-pin = <8>;
         rts-pin = <5>;
         cts-pin = <7>;
      };

.. _ug_zigbee_configuring_zboss_traces_using_usb:

Trace logs using native USB
===========================

> Trace logs can also be configured using a native USB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trace logs can also be configured to use a native USB.
```
?

> This is useful because console logs can still be read through USB, and trace logs that are printed through the UART cannot.
> This is because the UART used by the console logs are not connected to JLink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful because trace logs will be printed through separate virtual COM port so the console logs can still be read through J-Link COM port
```

> Additionally, trace logs are only available through USB if you want to debug Network co-processor (NCP) applications that use the UART through the on-board JLink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For applications that relay on UART connection through J-Link COM port, for example Network co-processor (NCP) sample, trace logs can only be configured through USB (COM port emulated over USB).
```

> See the :ref:`zigbee_ncp_sample` sample page for how to configure trace logs for USBs in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :ref:`zigbee_ncp_sample` sample page for how to configure trace logs for USB in this case.
```

.. note::

>    Before proceeding with the following steps, first check if your Zigbee application already has USB enabled or is currently using a USB.
>    Next, check if there are any USB CDC ACM instances already configured.
>    If so, then you will need to create another device and name it correctly.
>    For example, if ``CDC_ACM_0`` is already present, then you need to create ``CDC_ACM_1``, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Before proceeding with the following steps, first check if your Zigbee application already has USB enabled or is currently using a USB.
   If your application already utilizes Virtual COM port via native USB, use device name different than default ``CDC_ACM_0`` to create Virtual COM port for printing trace logs.
   For example, if ``CDC_ACM_0`` is already present, then create Virtual COM port ``CDC_ACM_1``, and so on.
```
?

Author: @sebastiandraus I agree with these changes, I just slightly modified you suggestion for the last sentence and suggest,
```"For example, if ``CDC_ACM_0`` is already present, then create a Virtual COM port called ``CDC_ACM_1``, and so on."```

Is this okay? Or does this change the intended meaning of the sentence?

Reviewer: Maybe `For example, if ``CDC_ACM_0`` is already present, then create a Virtual COM port **named** ``CDC_ACM_1``, and so on.`?

>    Additionally, the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_COMPOSITE_DEVICE` must be set if there are multiple USB CDC ACM instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Additionally, the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_COMPOSITE_DEVICE` must be set if there are multiple virtual COM ports configured.
```

   See the :ref:`zigbee_ncp_sample` sample page as an example where one USB CDC ACM instance is already configured, and another must be created.

To configure trace logs using native USB, complete the following steps:

1. Set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_USB_CDC_LOGGING`.
   This also enables the necessary USB Kconfig options.

#. Configure which USB device to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
   This is optional, as the default ``CDC_ACM_0`` will be used if no other USB device is configured.

> #. Create a USB CDC ACM instance that will be used for printing ZBOSS trace logs by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Create a virtual COM port that will be used for printing ZBOSS trace logs by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:
```

To help with that, the ZBOSS stack can be configured to print trace logs that allow you to trace the stack behavior.
This page describes how to enable and configure ZBOSS trace logs.

Trace logs are printed in binary form and  require access to stack source files to be decoded into log messages.
Enabling trace logs can help with the debugging process even if you cannot decode them (due to lack of access to stack source files).
This is because of the information they can provide about the stack behavior whenever an issue is found or reproduced.

If any issues are found with the ZBOSS stack, trace logs can be enabled to collect this information while reproducing the issue.
A ticket can then be created in `DevZone`_ with the log file attached for assistance with the debugging process, and for decoding trace log files.

.. note::
     ZBOSS trace logs are meant to be used for debugging ZBOSS based applications.
     These libraries are not certified and should not be used for production firmware or end products.

Requirements
************

To collect and view the log files, you will need the following:

* Software that allows for reading serial ports.

>   For example, if you are using Windows you can use :ref:`putty`.

Reviewer 2: My bad, the link needs an alt:
```suggestion
  For example, if you are using Windows you can use :ref:`PuTTY <putty>`.
```

   For available subsystems, see :file:`nrfxlib/zboss/production/include/zb_trace.h`.

#. Select the level of logs you want to receive.
   Configure ZBOSS trace level by selecting one of the following levels:

   * Error trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_ERR`
   * Warning trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_WRN`
   * Info trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_INF`
   * Debug trace logs level - set :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_DBG`

If you do not want to receive trace logs, turn them off by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL_OFF`.

Each of the following levels on the list also includes the previous one.
See :ref:`zigbee_ug_logging_stack_logs` to read more about trace logs.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Configure how to print ZBOSS trace logs
***************************************

The :ref:`zigbee_osif_zboss_osif_serial` offers a few backends to choose from for printing ZBOSS trace logs.
It is recommended to use the Zigbee serial logger, as it is the most efficient.
To enable it, set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING`.

> Optional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optional: Increasing ring buffer size
```
I think having more information in this line will help the user notice what this is about.

Reviewer 2: Hm, I think this can work, yes, but the link you provide has less info about the ring buffer than we have here.
So maybe:
```suggestion
Optional: Increasing ring buffer size

   You can increase size of the ring buffer that temporarily stores the trace logs.
   To do this, use :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_BUFFER_SIZE` to assign a value for size of the buffer.
   See :ref:`Zigbee serial logger <zigbee_osif_zigbee_async_serial>` for more information.
```
And add this info to the linked section, next to "Data is buffered internally in ring buffer and printed in the binary format.":
```
This ring buffer has a size of 4096 bytes by default.
This can prevent losing some of the logs in demanding scenarios such as high network traffic, multiple devices being configured or joined, and so on.
```

Reviewer 2: @sebastiandraus , any thoughts? :)

Reviewer: `This can prevent losing some of the logs in demanding scenarios such as high network traffic, multiple devices being configured or joined, and so on.`
It think that this is not necessary in the linked section.

Author: Okay, will only add: ```This ring buffer has a size of 4096 bytes by default.``` to the ZBOSS OSIF doc.

   You can increase size of the ring buffer that temporarily stores the trace logs.
   To do this, use :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_BUFFER_SIZE` to assign a value for size of the buffer.

>    This ring buffer has a size of 4096 B by default.

Author: Good that you point this out. I think that it does not need the backticks ``, but bytes should be spelled out. (Just based on other docs that refer to bytes see here: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/samples/bluetooth/throughput/README.html?highlight=bytes for example).

I will go ahead and make the change.

   This can prevent losing some of the logs in demanding scenarios such as high network traffic, multiple devices being configured or joined, and so on.

Trace logs using UART (default)
===============================

When :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_BINARY_LOGGING` is selected, trace logs are printed using the UART by default.
Below are more details on how to configure trace logs using the UART.

1. Set the :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_UART_LOGGING` Kconfig option.

#. Optionally, configure which UART device you want to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
   The default ``UART_1`` will be used if no other UART device is configured.

#. Configure the UART device that you want to use to be connected to the onboard JLink instead of ``UART_0``, by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:

>     .. code-block:: devicetree

Reviewer 2: I think indenting here is a bit too deep. "c" in `code` should be aligned with & below.

      &uart1 {
         tx-pin = <6>;
         rx-pin = <8>;
         rts-pin = <5>;
         cts-pin = <7>;
      };

      &uart0 {
         rx-pin = <33>;
         tx-pin = <34>;
         /delete-property/ rts-pin;
         /delete-property/ cts-pin;
      };

>     .. note::

Reviewer 2: Also a nit, but I think there is one space too much before `..` here...

      By connecting the UART device to the on-board JLink, trace logs can be read directly from the JLink COM port.
      As a consequence, the UART device used by the logger is disconnected and application logs cannot be accessed from the JLink COM port.

> Optional configuration
> -----------------------

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can use the same approach as in line 88 here:
```suggestion
Optional: Increasing the UART throughput
```
And then indent lines 131-146...

You can also increase the UART throughput by changing the baudrate.
Some of the trace logs will be dropped if the throughput is too low.

> By default, the UART baudrate is set to 115200.

Author: Agree. Will make this change, because there are no units after the value.

Trace logs using native USB
===========================

Trace logs can also be configured to use a native USB.
This is useful because trace logs will be printed through a separate virtual COM port so that the console logs can still be read through the JLink COM port.
For applications that relay on the UART connection through the JLink COM port, for example the Network co-processor (NCP) sample, trace logs can only be configured through USB (COM port emulated over USB).
See the :ref:`zigbee_ncp_sample` sample page for how to configure trace logs for USB in this case.

.. note::
   Before proceeding with the following steps, first check if your Zigbee application already has USB enabled or is currently using a USB.
   If your application is already using a virtual COM port via native USB, use a device name that is different than the default ``CDC_ACM_0`` to create new virtual COM port for printing trace logs.
   For example, if ``CDC_ACM_0`` is already present, then create a virtual COM port named ``CDC_ACM_1``, and so on.
   Additionally, the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_COMPOSITE_DEVICE` must be set if there are multiple virtual COM ports configured.

>    See the :ref:`zigbee_ncp_sample` sample page as an example where one virtual COM port instance is already configured, and another must be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   See the :ref:`Zigbee NCP <zigbee_ncp_sample>` sample page as an example where one virtual COM port instance is already configured, and another must be created.
```
Just to remove the ":" appearing in the link...

To configure trace logs using native USB, complete the following steps:

1. Set the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_USB_CDC_LOGGING`.
   This also enables the necessary USB Kconfig options.

#. Configure which USB device to use with the Kconfig option :kconfig:`CONFIG_ZBOSS_TRACE_LOGGER_DEVICE_NAME`.
   This is optional, as the default ``CDC_ACM_0`` will be used if no other USB device is configured.

#. Create a virtual COM port that will be used for printing ZBOSS trace logs by extending the DTS overlay file for the selected board with the following:

   .. code-block:: devicetree

      &zephyr_udc0 {
         cdc_acm_uart0: cdc_acm_uart0 {
            compatible = "zephyr,cdc-acm-uart";
            label = "CDC_ACM_0";
         };
      };

   .. note::

>       For the ZBOSS trace logs to be printed correctly through the USB, it is recommended to not use the USB autosuspend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      For the ZBOSS trace logs to be printed correctly through the USB, it is recommended to avoid using the USB autosuspend.
```
Somehow I could not see `not` clearly there when I read the preview...
